# General + Syntax 
Bison is a parser generatior. It is to parsers what flex is to scanners(important :) ).  They work by being provided the input of a grammar specification and it generats an LALR parser to recognize sentences in the grammar.

### How it works:
The parser is configured for use in conjuction with a flex-generated scanner and relies on standard shared features(token types, **yylval**, etc) and calls the function **yylex()** as a scanner coroutine. They are recognized by the **.y** file extention and it creates a **y.tab.h** and a **y.tab.c** file. The file provides an extern function called **yyparse.y** that will attempt to succecfully parse a valid sentence

### The format of a bison file:
```
%{
Declarations
%}

Definitions

%%
Productions
%%

User subroutines
```

### Few things worth pointing out:
All token types from the scanner myst be defined using **%token** in the definitions section.  

For each rule, a colon(**:**) is used in place of the arrow, a vertical bar(**|**) seperates the various productions, and a semicolon(**;**) terminates the role. Bison pays no attention to line boinderies in the rules section, so you are free to use lots of space to make grammar look pretty :)

Within the braces theres just simply ordinary C code

**yyparse** is the function generated by Bison. IT reads from **STDIN**. The **yyparse** returns 0 of the parse was successfull and 1 otherwise. If it encounters an error(i.e the next token in the input stream cannot be shifted), it calls the routine **yyerror()**, which by default prints **parse error** and quits.

### How to intepret the Production section.
```
left_side: right_side1 { action1 }
    | right_side2 { action2 }
    | right_side3 { action3 }   
    ;
```
Left side is named typically like identifiers using a sequence of letters and/or digits, starting with a letter. The left side is non-terminal which means that they do not have to be defined before use, but eventually. 

Each right side is a valid expansion for the left side non-terminal.

#### TERMINAL SYMBOLS ARE CHARACTER CONSTATS E.G "A" OR TOKENS DEFINED BY USING %TOKEN

### Symbol attributes
The parser allows you to associate attributes withc each grammar symbol, both terminal and non-terminals. For terminals, the global variable **yylval** is used to communicate the particulars about the token just scanned from the scanner to the parser. For non-terminals you can explicity access and set their attributes using the attribute stack. If you want different information for various symbol types, a union is used, e.g:
```c
%union
{
    int intValue;
    double doubleValue;
    char *stringValue;
}
```
The above union would be incolded in the **definitions** section. It is then translated by bison into C code as **YYSTYPE typedef** for at new union type with the above fields. The global variable **yyval** is of this type, and the parser stores variables of this type on the parser stack, on for each symbol currently on the stack.

When defining each token you can assign each token to each individual row in the union as such(for terminals):
```c
%token <intValue>T_Int <doubleValue>T_Double T_While T_Return
```

For non-terminals you can use **%type** in the **definitions** section, such as:
```c
%type<intValue> Integer IntExpression
```

To access a grammar symbols attribute from the parse stack, you can use **\$n** where n is the n'th symbol of the current right, starting from 1. The attribute for the non­
terminal on the left side is denoted by **\$$**. If no type type of the token is set, you can use the following notation:
```c
$<fieldname>n
```

A similar mechanism is used to obtain information about symbol locations, the parser maintains a variable of type **YYLTYPE** which is a structure containing four members:
1. First line
2. First column
3. Last line
4. Last column

To use the four members above, you may use:
```c
@n in parrallel with $n
```

When working with precedence of operators for instance, the **last** rule **ALWAYS** has the highest precedence. For instance:
```c
%token T_Int
%left '+'
%left '*'
%right '^'
%%
E
    : E '+' E
    | E '*' E
    | E '^' E
    | T_Int
    ;
```

Where + has the lowest priority, then * and lastly ^(since its last). You may also use the **%prec** keyword to set a precence of a terminal symbol as its argument. Here are some guidelines when setting up the precedence:
1. Identify what the token is that could be shifted and the alternate production that could be
reduced
2. What would be the effect of choosing the shift? 
3. What is the effect of choosing to reduce? 
4. Which is the one we want?

#### Error handling
When a bison-generated parser encounters an error, it calls the default **yyerror** routine to print a generic **"parse error"**. To recover from an error the **error** keyword may be places in the right side of a prodution to mark a context in which to attempt error recovery.